[Music]
listen up 10 tips to protect your home
from burglary
you know burglars don't care who you are
they just want whatever precious stuff
you have according to the FBI's yearly
Uniform Crime Report in 2016 the damage
caused by burglaries in the USA alone
reached an astonishing three and a half
billion dollars what's worse
burglars usually try to get rid of
stolen loot as soon as possible so the
chances of getting your property back
are slim to none about 20 percent
Brightside is bringing you the most
common schemes burglars usually stick by
armed with this information it'll be
easier for you to keep your property
safe counting down from number 10
burglars prefer easy targets now to
burglarize a house a thief can take
anywhere from 90 seconds to 12 minutes
most of this time is actually spent on
just locating valuables and taking them
out not the initial breaking into the
home
that's why criminals tend to choose easy
targets for example first floor
apartments homes with their windows or
doors open and houses that are difficult
to see from the street to avoid
unpleasant surprises follow these
recommendations always close the front
door to your apartment or house along
with the windows and the door to the
balcony if you have one if you live in
the 1st or 2nd floor put bars on the
windows yeah it looks a little scary but
it's worth it and always remember to
lock all doors and windows when you
leave don't leave your keys under the
doormat or in any other stereotypical
hiding places it's much better to give a
spare copy to someone you trust also get
an alarm
burglars can easily pick most locks with
the help of a screwdriver or a lockpick
but in most cases an alarm will scare
them off hey get a dog and it doesn't
even need to be a huge threatening
looking brave burglars aren't so much
afraid of the animal itself or the
chances of getting bitten as the
are of the noise that barking creates it
also attracts unwanted attention that
they try to avoid at all costs
so even a cute little ankle-biter will
do the trick
just get one with a really big bark now
bigger than that yeah that's one that's
a chihuahua Wow
[Music]
number nine burglars don't like
difficulties criminals are ready to
spend no more than five minutes on
getting into a house or apartment after
that the stakes become too high and they
prefer to ditch the plan so to make
these guys lives a whole lot harder and
to protect your property it's enough to
install some additional locks or a
security system number eight
criminals look for vulnerable spots
people often overlook vulnerable places
in their homes such as small windows or
basement wells
however burglars take advantage of these
weak spots to easily get into your
residence that's why you should install
locks and grading on all the entrances
to your home not just the big obvious
ones number seven burglars love empty
houses the highest number of apartment
and house burglaries happen in July and
August when most people are away on
vacation how do criminals know the house
is empty there are a lot of ways but the
easiest one is seeing how much clutter
has accumulated in the mailbox
aha the more hands-on burglars may even
stick a flyer on your front door or put
a cookie under the doormat if after some
time they see that the flyer is still
there and the cookie isn't crushed it's
a sure sign that the homeowners are away
and what a criminal waste of a cookie to
avoid this potential danger try doing
the following if you'll be gone for a
long period of time ask your friends or
neighbors to look after your house and
check your mail regularly empty the
mailbox yourself and don't leave
advertising leaflets hanging on your
door
shut your curtains or blinds if they're
drawn wide open it's just way too easy
for burglars to go window-shopping
number sex burglars survey the house
before invading it criminals tend to
test the waters before committing a
burglary a really common tactic is
visiting homes pretending to be public
utility workers this way they can check
when the owners are out as well as make
sure the house is even worth robbing
they can even use a special system of
symbols and hieroglyphics to mark doors
or mailboxes of places that they've
already checked man these guys have a
lot of free time on their hands don't
they these symbols can change and differ
from country to country but if you
notice something similar it might be a
good idea to stay alert to keep yourself
out of this predicament always remember
this advice if you get a random visit
from a plumber or electrician the best
idea would be to call the managing
company and make sure they really sent
this person don't use the number you're
uninvited guests provides it's probably
fake watch your mailbox on the front
door for any suspicious signs if you
notice something don't hesitate to
contact the police don't keep your keys
or valuable things where anybody can see
them one quick glance and the burglar
will memorize their location Wow see
these guys are seriously prepared but
are they as prepared as telephone
scammers who cheat people out of their
money you can arm yourself with
knowledge by watching this video about
the latest telephone scams the link is
at the top of the screen okay now back
to burglars
number five criminals hunt for small
objects and know where to find them
let's get one thing straight burglars
are interested in money jewelry and
electronics but if they catch a glimpse
of your favorite designer clothing and
bags expensive perfume medicines or
weapons they won't say no to those items
either to avoid this threat keep your
money in the bank as for jewelry and
other valuable belongings it would be
better to find a safe place for them and
don't even think about throwing them in
a cupboard sock drawer shoebox or
bookcase criminals are well aware of
these common hiding places and ransacked
them first however they would be
unlikely to rummage through all the food
in your fridge or kitchen cabinets well
not unless they're really hungry
burglars save the serial number of all
your electronics mobile phones computers
gaming consoles etc in a separate file
mark the most expensive objects with a
UV mark it'll help you identify them if
they're found this way you can slightly
increase your chances of getting your
stolen items back number 4 criminals are
social media savvy whenever you upload
your latest vacation pictures on
Facebook or Instagram remember that they
can be seen not only by your friends and
family but also by those who would love
nothing more than to explore your empty
apartment and it can be easily located
based on the geo tags on the photos you
took at home also burglars can use
social media sites to decide whether or
not your apartment is worth their time
and effort to avoid this situation you
really need to control yourself on your
favorite social media platforms don't
reveal too much personal information
about yourself on the interwebs don't
write about your travel plans and don't
upload pics while you're still at your
vacay destination
don't upload photos of your valuable
things money or big purchases just the
picture of that triple scoop hot fudge
sundae you had for dessert
don't friend people you don't know it's
harsh but that's reality
number three criminals can use your own
stuff to get inside the house burglars
are opportunistic so they'll search the
vicinity for any objects that can help
them get into your house if they can get
their hands on it they'll use your own
screwdriver or a ladder to break into
your house and steal your stuff how bowl
they can also use rocks bricks or heavy
tools to force their way in and garbage
cans stools or ladders left outside are
great for climbing over the fence or
into a window if you don't want to
assist in the burglary of your own home
put all your tools ladders and yard
equipment in the garage keep them in a
shed or just take them inside don't
leave anything that can be used to break
into your house just lying around
outside then includes big sticks or tree
branches rocks and bricks number two
burglars can come up with different
excuses to get in one of the schemes
criminals may employ is coming up with
some crazy or pitiful stories in order
to get into your home I mean these guys
invent hieroglyphics create stories why
don't they put their talents to good use
anyway they'll come to your door tell
you that their dog has just run away and
asked you to check if it's somehow got
into your house if you agree the
best-case scenario is that they'll get a
visual of your home but in the
worst-case scenario you'll be missing
your wallet or purse after their
departure if you're not so willing to
part with your precious fence never ever
let strangers into your house no matter
how desperate they say even if you
decide to help search for the probably
non-existent dog inside your house
you again well be sure to lock the door
first and don't let the visitors in and
number one distraction burglaries are on
the rise
a distraction burglary scheme is simple
one criminal tries to occupy all your
attention while his accomplice secretly
gets into the house actually the lost
dog store is one of these types
Oh knock it off hey where's my stuff
anyway another distraction scheme that's
even more popular is the emergency
situation a person pretending to be a
utility worker will appear at your door
looking frantic and inform you that
there's a water main break nearby or a
gas leak or whatever so they've come to
save the day and turn off your supply
while you're taking them to let's say
the basement their partner will empty
out your house right behind your back or
above your head you get it so here's
what you can do to prevent this
situation don't open the door if you
aren't sure who's knocking even if
you're mostly convinced with the story
still call a trustworthy neighbor and
ask them to check the perimeter of your
home if you're persuaded to evacuate
your home lock all the doors and other
entry ways into the house windows
balconies and so on have you heard any
other stories about the sneaky ways
burglars get into the house tell us in
the comments below share this video with
your friends so that they can protect
their homes to remember to give us a
like and subscribe to our Channel
because there's always loads of
interesting videos on the bright side of
life
you